# How This Became That: The Long Now of *Ulysses*

## Project Description

This project will document, describe, and disseminate the methods, theories and practices
of Engl507's contributions to The Long Now of *Ulysses*. Its purpose is to record the
methodological and theoretical (modelling, versioning, visualization, and curation)
frameworks informing the exhibit. Further, it will provide an instructional framework to
enable others to create and curate multiple and diverse projects. The essay, or guide,
will be disseminated electronically to cultural and educational professionals and possibly
published online through the [UVic Maker Lab](http://www.jenterysayers.com/) and/or the
[Modernist Version Project](http://web.uvic.ca/~mvp1922/).

The document itself will be structured by the sections of the exhibit featured in the
Maltwood Gallery and online. It's authorship will ultimately be collective inasmuch as the 
log entries published in the GitHub repository will provide the source material for each 
section. These entries will be revised with praxis, interoperability, and pedagogical 
applications in mind.

## List of Materials

* GitHub Repository 
* Inspirations (to display visual data -- work-flow, for example) 
* The [NINCH Guide to Good Practice in the Digital Representation and Management
of Cultural Heritage
Materials](http://www.nyu.edu/its/pubs/pdfs/NINCH_Guide_to_Good_Practice.pdf) will serve
as a reference point or a model for this paper.

##Reasonable Scope

This project will be ready for (online) publication and dissemination by April 16, 2013.
It will include documentation added to the GitHub repository up until April
3, 2013. Inasmuch as the exhibit features complex innovations by the 507 collective, some
exhibit dimensions may remain in prototypical or beta-stage forms.

## Deliverable

This project will deliver a 15 to 25 page document (in PDF form) and (possibly) an XML
version for web publication. It will include visual and textual representations along with
hypertext links to relevant resources.

## Risks and Constraints

This project is communal and reflexive in nature. It relies on the meticulous and
consistent documentation of the 502 collective. If it fails to reach or engage its 
audience it risks becoming obsolete.

## Benefits: Who and How

This document benefits two primary groups.

1. Contributors to the exhibit

This document creates a public record of the exhibit and gives credit to each persons
contributions to it. Furthermore, by making the methodologies transparent and open to
peer-review we invite the comments and criticisms of a wider audience so that we can build
upon and improve our methods for future projects.

2. Cultural and Educational Communities

This project seeks to benefit not only UVic and the UVic libraries but also the broader
cultural and educational communities. By sharing and modelling our methods and processes
we can save institutions and organizations valuable time and resources creating and
curating their own exhibits.

##Deadlines and Milestones

Inasmuch as this project depends on the development of each exhibit component I will
synchronize my deadlines and milestones with the deadlines and milestones of each
component.

I will check in with the GitHub repo at least twice a week and at strategic points
throughout the term to remain in touch with the development of each project. I'll add and
revise my paper each week to reflect the developments of each project.

I will report on the progress of my project to the class, likely during the fourth or
fifth week presentations.

My paper will be ready to publish by April 16, 2013.

## Support

The GitHub repository will function as my primary resource. I will draw upon each person's
and group of people's documentation of their projects. Direct communication about specific
projects may be required along with access to any special technologies or applications
should the need arise.

## Project Success

I'll evaluate the success of this project by two measures: completion and reception.

First, I'll consider this project a success if it does what I said it will do in the
proposed time frame.

Second, I hope this project contributes to an ongoing conversation about the curation,
documentation, and preservation of literary exhibits. I'll consider this project a success
if it serves as a useful guide to future exhibits.

##Personal Success

During this project, I'll be working towards two goals:

1. To learn more about the Digital Humanities in order to 
2. Determine if I want to pursue DH for my graduating essay (project).

