# WORKFLOW  

## Research and Writing  

My workflow consists of overlapping processes in the areas of research, writing, time and
productivity management, and document storage and backup. Research and writing currently
comprise the biggest chunk of my daily process. My preferred web browser is Google Chrome.
I began using it because of the integrated search functionality and have have been
generally happy with it, although I do sometimes experience frustrations because some of
the Mac commands don’t work as well and Java doesn’t run in Chrome. Within Chrome, I
mainly organize bookmarks into different folders using the browser bookmark function. I
have tried using Google Reader to manage RSS feeds, but I prefer actively looking for
information when I need it instead of subscribing to feeds. My favourite Google Chrome
customization is Evernote's Web Clippings. [Evernote](http://www.evernote.com/) is a key
part of my workflow, so this integration makes it easier for me to keep notes on web
content I find relevant.  

I take notes in Evernote on everything relevant I read, hear, and see. That way I have a
searchable, easily-accessible hub of all important quotes, notes, thoughts, and ideas. For
most of my writing I use. I'm not completely happy with Pages, especially because I think
that the interface and formatting functions are not that strong, but I wanted to move away
from Microsoft Word. For more complex pieces, such as term papers, I have started using
Scrivener. I like Scrivener's interface, the full-screen mode, the productivity tools, and
the option to organize your writing into separate components that can then be
restructured.  

I currently save all articles that I access digitally as PDFs on my local drive. In
addition to bookmarking websites that I find relevant, I save web pages as PDFs or use
Evernote’s Web Clipper to keep notes on specific content. I use RefWorks as my
bibliographic database system. I've considered using [Zotero](http://www.zotero.org) or
[Mendeley](http://www.mendeley.com), but haven't had time to move all my content from
RefWorks into another system.  

## Time and Productivity Management

Although I’m quite dependent on my computer to keep track of my research, ideas, and
writing process, I still do a lot of thinking and sketching of ideas with a pencil in my
hand, but I’ve tried out some interesting concepting, mind-mapping, etc. tools \(e.g.
[XMind](http://http://www.xmind.net/)\) to communicate my thought process digitally. I
use Google Calendar to keep track of meetings and deadlines. However, I've strayed away
from further productivity tools to keep track of to-do lists and the like, because I those
things change so quickly that it would be inefficient to keep updating them digitally.

## Storage and Backup

I back up my work files on Dropbox almost every day, and I backup all of my files on a
hard drive once a month. Using Pages for text-based documents allows me to revert any
document to previous versions of it. I’ve used Git for collaborative, digital projects in
the past, and it has always made processes such as revisions and QA more efficient.  
