Telka Duxbury Engl507 January 14, 2013

# Workflow

This log outlines my established and emerging workflow methods for Engl507.

I'll start the term using [Google Chrome](https://google.com/chrome) as my primary
browser. The synchronizing function between Google applications (I use [Google
Drive](https://drive.google.com/) and [Gmail](https://mail.google.com/)) and multiple
devices (I often work from two laptops at home, my android phone, and occasionally from a
computer on campus) makes accessing and editing my files effortless. At Turkel's
suggestion [Turkel, William][id]: <http://williamjturkel.net/how-to/)>, I installed
[Firefox](https://mozilla.org) and the WorldCat, Internet Archive, and Project Gutenberg,
add-ons [Firefox Add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org). I'll use Firefox as my secondary
browser and continue to experiment with the browser applications and extensions throughout
the term.

My regular backup strategies include a weekly (soon-to-be daily) automated backup onto an
external hard drive using [GFI](http://gfi.com) software. I also archive all my important
files on Google Drive. I have used Drive as a sort of versioning application for text
files but after a cursory overview [Git](http://git-scm.com/) offers a much more
sophisticated versioning program more suited to advanced projects like ours.

Spidering is a brand new concept to me. I chose to install
[SiteSucker](http://sitesucker.us/home.html) over
[DownThemAll](https://addons.mozilla.org) because it’s not browser specific. I use the
factory installed screenshot software [Screen
Grab Pro](http://apple.com/downloads/dashboard/business/screenshotplus.html) to make local
copies manually. To manage citations, I’ll use [Zotaro](http://zotero.org).

I'm constantly experimenting with new writing strategies that (usually) blend digital and
analogue technologies (though I suspect digital applications will play a more central role
for this class). I’ll use [Livescribe](http://livescribe.com) technology to take
manuscript notes and to record class discussions, lectures, and workshops. The audio files
will be made available to the class (probably on [GitHub](http://mac.github.com/)).
Livescribe will also be useful to facilitate digital versions of manuscript data (for
example, I find creative, pre-writing processes such as concept maps most constructive
using manuscript methods). To represent more complex, developed, and visually dynamic
concept maps I’ll use [Inspirations](http://inspiration.com).
